Add GET_STARTED.MD doc to get started application development using CCF (#37)
microsoft/ccf-app-samples: GET_STARTED.md

all will be preinstalled if you are using devcontainer environment,
otherwise you need to manually install.

In the checkout of this repository:

```bash
# carried out on the dev-container start up
cd banking-app && npm install

# build and generate the application bundle and deployment proposal
make build

# a dist folder is created with app bundle and deployment proposal.
```

---

### Testing your Application

There are several approaches to test your application

- [Sandbox.sh](#testing-using-sandboxsh)

  - Build an initialized CCF network and automatically deploy your app on top of it
  - Support both ccf network types [virtual - enclave (TEE hardware)]
  - No governance steps required

- [Docker container](#testing-using-docker-containers)

  - Support both ccf network types [virtual - enclave (TEE hardware)]
  - Governance steps required to deploy your app, initialize, and start the network

- [Linux Machine](#testing-using-linux-machine)

  - Support both ccf network types [virtual - enclave (TEE hardware)]
  - Governance steps required to deploy your app, initialize, and start the network

- [Azure Managed CCF Service](#testing-using-azure-managed-ccf-serivce-mccf)

>   - Using Azure MCCF service, will Create [a Managed CCF network](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/azure-confidential-computing/microsoft-introduces-preview-of-azure-managed-confidential/ba-p/3648986) which is (initialized, contains an active member, and In Open State)

Author: Done

...
 # CCF Network initialization needed before the interaction with the service
```

Now, a network is started with one node and one member, you need to execute the following governance steps to initialize the network, [check Network governance section](#network-governance)

- Activate the network existing member (to start a network governance)
- Build the application and [create a deployment proposal](#build-application)
- Deploy the application proposal, [using governance calls](#network-governance)
- Create and submit [an add users proposal](#new-user-proposal)
- Open the network for users ([using proposal](#open-network-proposal))

##### CCF Node Configuration file

To start or join new node you need some configs, The configuration for each CCF node must be contained in a single JSON configuration file like [cchost_config_enclave_js.json - cchost_config_virtual_js.json], [ CCF node config file documentation](https://microsoft.github.io/CCF/main/operations/configuration.html)

#### Testing: Using Azure Managed CCF Serivce ([MCCF](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/azure-confidential-computing/microsoft-introduces-preview-of-azure-managed-confidential/ba-p/3648986))

> To test you application using MCCF, you can create Azure Managed CCF Serivce on your subscription, the service will create a CCF network which is (initialized, Active member, and In Open State)

Author: The acronym is fixed
I removed this part "which is (initialized, Active member, and In Open State)"

> - First, create the network's first member certificate, please check [Certificates generation](https://microsoft.github.io/CCF/release/3.x/governance/adding_member.htmlhttps://microsoft.github.io/CCF/release/3.x/governance/adding_member.html)

Author: Done

> - Create a new Azure Managed CCF Serivce (first member certificate required as input)

Author: Done

Submit a proposal

```bash
proposal0_out=$(/opt/ccf/bin/scurl.sh "https://ccf_service_url/gov/proposals" --cacert service_cert.pem --signing-key member0_privk.pem --signing-cert member0_cert.pem --data-binary @proposal.json -H "content-type: application/json")
proposal0_id=$( jq -r  '.proposal_id' <<< "${proposal0_out}" )
```

Members vote to accept or reject the proposal

```bash
/opt/ccf/bin/scurl.sh "https://ccf_service_url/gov/proposals/$proposal0_id/ballots" --cacert service_cert.pem --signing-key member0_privk.pem --signing-cert member0_cert.pem --data-binary @vote_accept.json -H "content-type: application/json" | jq
/opt/ccf/bin/scurl.sh "https://ccf_service_url/gov/proposals/$proposal0_id/ballots" --cacert service_cert.pem --signing-key member1_privk.pem --signing-cert member1_cert.pem --data-binary @vote_accept.json -H "content-type: application/json" | jq
```

```
Note: Members and users, certificates and keys, must be generated before starting a CCF network, please check [Certificates generation](https://microsoft.github.io/CCF/release/3.x/governance/adding_member.htmlhttps://microsoft.github.io/CCF/release/3.x/governance/adding_member.html).

> ```

Author: Rephrased as "Note: The initial member's certificate and private key, must be generated before starting a CCF network"

### Network Governance: Activating network members

By default the CCF network needs at least one member to be started, after the network is started this member must be activated.
[Adding or activating members](https://microsoft.github.io/CCF/main/governance/adding_member.html)

#### Activate member

```bash
curl "https://ccf_service_url/gov/ack/update_state_digest" -X POST --cacert service_cert.pem --key member0_privk.pem --cert member0_cert.pem --silent | jq > request.json
cat request.json
/opt/ccf/bin/scurl.sh "https://ccf_service_url/gov/ack"  --cacert service_cert.pem --signing-key member0_privk.pem --signing-cert member0_cert.pem --header "Content-Type: application/json" --data-binary @request.json
```

#### New member proposal

```json
{
  "actions": [
    {
      "name": "set_member",
      "args": {

>         "cert": "member_cert",

Author: Done

>         "encryption_pub_key": "member_encryption_pub_key"

Author: Done

      }
    }
  ]
}
```

### Network Governance: Adding users

Users directly interact with the application running in CCF. Their public identities should be voted in by members before they are allowed to issue requests

Once a CCF network is successfully started and an acceptable number of nodes have joined, members should vote to open the network to Users.
First, the identities of trusted users should be generated,see [Generating Member Keys and Certificates](https://microsoft.github.io/CCF/main/governance/adding_member.html#generating-member-keys-and-certificates) and [Adding Users docs](https://microsoft.github.io/CCF/main/governance/open_network.html)

#### New user proposal

```json
{
  "actions": [
    {
      "name": "set_user",
      "args": {

>         "cert": "user_cert"

Author: Done

      }
    }
  ]
}
```

### Network Governance: Application deployment

The native format for JavaScript applications in CCF is a [JavaScript application bundle](https://microsoft.github.io/CCF/main/build_apps/js_app_bundle.html), or short app bundle. A bundle can be wrapped directly into a governance proposal for deployment.

#### Application deployment proposal

```json
{
  "actions": [
    {
      "name": "set_js_app",
      "args": {
        "bundle": {

>           "metadata": { "endpoints": {} },

Author: Done , I added it as {<endpoints>}, to clarify the object type

>           "modules": []

Author: Done

## Overview

Get started repository for building CCF applications using (JavaScript, TypeScript and C++).

## Quick start

What is CCF: The [Confidential Consortium Framework (CCF)](https://ccf.dev/) is an open-source framework for building a new category of secure, highly available,
and performant applications that focus on multi-party compute and data.

- Read the [CCF overview](https://microsoft.github.io/CCF/main/overview/index.html) and get familiar with [CCF's core concepts](https://microsoft.github.io/CCF/main/overview/what_is_ccf.html) and [Azure confidential computing](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/confidential-computing/)
- [Build new CCF applications](https://microsoft.github.io/CCF/main/build_apps/index.html) in TypeScript/JavaScript or C++
- CCF [Modules API reference](https://microsoft.github.io/CCF/main/js/ccf-app/modules.html)
- CCF application get started repos
  - [CCF application template](https://github.com/microsoft/ccf-app-template)
  - [CCF application samples](https://github.com/microsoft/ccf-app-samples)

## Supported Programing Languages

Applications can be written in

- TypeScript
- JavaScript
- C++

> - More languages support upcoming on 2023

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- More languages support upcoming in 2023
```

Author: Done

## Development environment

> - Development container and VSCode [![Open in VSCode](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=Open+in&message=VSCode&logo=visualstudiocode&color=007ACC&logoColor=007ACC&labelColor=2C2C32)](https://vscode.dev/redirect?url=vscode://ms-vscode-remote.remote-containers/cloneInVolume?url=https://github.com/microsoft/ccf-app-samples)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- VS Code Dev Container [![Open in VSCode](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=Open+in&message=VSCode&logo=visualstudiocode&color=007ACC&logoColor=007ACC&labelColor=2C2C32)](https://vscode.dev/redirect?url=vscode://ms-vscode-remote.remote-containers/cloneInVolume?url=https://github.com/microsoft/ccf-app-samples)
```

Reviewer: Marketing get a bit funny with the name!

Author: Done

- Github codespace: [![Github codespace](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=Open+in&message=GitHub+codespace&logo=github&color=2F363D&logoColor=white&labelColor=2C2C32)](https://github.com/codespaces/new?hide_repo_select=true&ref=main&repo=496290904&machine=basicLinux32gb&devcontainer_path=.devcontainer.json&location=WestEurope)
- Linux Machine ([Create a VM](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/confidential-computing/quick-create-portal) and [Install ccf](https://microsoft.github.io/CCF/main/build_apps/install_bin.html))

## <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42961061/191275583-88e00f94-73aa-4d66-9786-047987eb9fa9.png" height=50px> </img> (JS/Typescript) Applications

To test a ccf application you need go through the following steps:

- Start a CCF Network with at least one node
- Initialize the CCF network with at least one (active member - user), this is done through [Network Governance Proposals](https://microsoft.github.io/CCF/main/governance/proposals.html).
- Create an application [deployment proposal](https://microsoft.github.io/CCF/main/build_apps/js_app_bundle.html)

> - Submit the app deployment proposal to the network and all members accept it through voting, This is a part of [Network Governance](https://microsoft.github.io/CCF/main/governance/proposals.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Submit the app deployment proposal to the network and all members accept it through voting. This is a part of [Network Governance](https://microsoft.github.io/CCF/main/governance/proposals.html).
```

- Open the CCF network for users
- Start to test your application endpoints

### Build Application

The application building prerequisites [[CCF](#ccf-install), NodeJS and NPM] must be installed,
all will be preinstalled if you are using devcontainer environment,
otherwise you need to manually install.

In the checkout of this repository:

```bash
cd banking-app

> npm install

Reviewer: This should have been carried out when we opened the dev container

Author: I've added it as a comment, but left to give a clearer context

# build and generate the application bundle and deployment proposal
make build

> ls

Reviewer: why do we need ls and cd?

Author: Removed

cd ..

# a dist folder is created with app bundle.
```

---

### Testing your Application

> There are servral ways and tools which helping to test your application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are several approaches to test your application
```

- [Sandbox.sh](#testing-using-sandboxsh)

>   - Build an initialized CCF network and deploy your app on top of it

Reviewer: If you use the sandbox, you don't need to deploy your app on it do you? I thought you used --js-bundle

  - Support both ccf network types [virtual - release (TEE hardware)]
  - No governance steps required

- [Docker container](#testing-using-docker-containers)

  - Support both ccf network types [virtual - release (TEE hardware)]
  - Governance steps required to deploy your app, initialize, and start the network

- [Linux Machine](#testing-using-linux-machine)

  - Support both ccf network types [virtual - release (TEE hardware)]
  - Governance steps required to deploy your app, initialize, and start the network

- [Azure Managed CCF Service](#testing-using-azure-managed-ccf-serivce-mccf)

  - Using Azure MCCF service, will Create [a Managed CCF network](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/azure-confidential-computing/microsoft-introduces-preview-of-azure-managed-confidential/ba-p/3648986) which is (initialized, contains an active member, and In Open State)
  - Support only a ccf network in release mode (TEE hardware)

>   - No governance steps required to start up your network, but you need to deploy your app proposal

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - No governance steps required to start up your network, but you need to use governance to propose an application
```

#### Testing: Using Sandbox.sh

By running sandbox.sh script, it is automatically starts a CCF network and deploys your application on it.
The app is up and ready to receive calls and all the governance work is done for you.

> Start in a CCF Network in Release mode

Reviewer: Do you think we should use the term "enclave" rather than release?

```bash

> /opt/ccf/bin/sandbox.sh --js-app-bundle ./js/dist/  --enclave-type release -p /opt/ccf/lib/libjs.enclave.so.signed

Reviewer: `./js/dist` - is this the right folder structure for the banking sample? It maybe correct for the ccf-app-template repo

...
[12:00:00.000] Press Ctrl+C to shutdown the network
# It is then possible to interact with the service
```

Start in a CCF Network in Virtual mode (the default mode for testing)

```bash

> /opt/ccf/bin/sandbox.sh --js-app-bundle ./js/dist/

Reviewer: Same here - I don't think js folder exists in this repo

...
[12:00:00.000] Press Ctrl+C to shutdown the network
# It is then possible to interact with the service
```

#### Testing: Using docker containers

Build and run one of these docker files ["ccf_app_js.virtual" or "ccf_app_js.enclave"] to start a CCF network with one node and one member.
After that, you need to execute governance steps to deploy the application and open the network for users to begin access the app endpoints.
All the governance steps need to be done manually using [proposal submit and vote process](https://microsoft.github.io/CCF/main/governance/proposals.html).

##### Build and run docker container to start a CCF network

> Start in a CCF Network in Release mode, via docker container based on config file "./config/cchost_config_enclave_js.json"

Reviewer: "enclave" mode?

#### Testing: Using Azure Managed CCF Serivce ([MCCF](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/azure-confidential-computing/microsoft-introduces-preview-of-azure-managed-confidential/ba-p/3648986))

To test you application using MCCF, you can create Azure Managed CCF Serivce on your subscription, the service will create a CCF network which is (initialized, Active member, and In Open State)

- First, create the network's first member certificate, please check [Certificates generation](https://microsoft.github.io/CCF/release/3.x/governance/adding_member.htmlhttps://microsoft.github.io/CCF/release/3.x/governance/adding_member.html)
- Create a new Azure Managed CCF Serivce (first member certificate required as input)
- Build the application and [create a deployment proposal](#build-application)
- Deploy the application proposal, [using governance calls](#network-governance)
- Create and submit [an add users proposal](#new-user-proposal)

### Testing: Application Endpoints

Now you can send requests to your endpoints, the following sample requests to log application [(ccf-app-template)](https://github.com/microsoft/ccf-app-template/tree/main/js)

In another terminal:

> #### Banking application

Reviewer: At this point - would it not be better to reference a doc that lives inside the banking-app folder?

Author: Done, but later we need to add some testing samples to the application doc

#### Application deployment proposal

```json
{
  "actions": [
    {
      "name": "set_js_app",
      "args": {
        "bundle": {
          "metadata": { "endpoints": {} },
          "modules": []
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

### Network Governance: Open network for users

Once users are added to the opening network, members should create a proposal to open the network,
Other members are then able to vote for the proposal using the returned proposal id.

Once the proposal has received enough votes under the rules of the Constitution (ie. ballots which evaluate to true), the network is opened to users.
It is only then that users are able to execute transactions on the deployed application.

#### Open network proposal

```json
{
  "actions": [
    {
      "name": "transition_service_to_open",
      "args": {
        "next_service_identity": "service_cert"
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

---

## Development Dependencies Installation

- CCF Setup
- NodeJS
- NPM

### CCF Install

To install the ccf runtime please check [Install CCF](https://microsoft.github.io/CCF/main/build_apps/install_bin.html)

> 

Reviewer: At this point I would just point them at the other repo rather than copying the steps as this will get out of date quickly
